.. p5 documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu May 25 17:28:12 2017.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to the p5 documentation!
================================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/release/p5py/p5.svg
   :target: https://github.com/p5py/p5

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/p5.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/p5

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/p5py/p5.svg?style=social&label=Star
   :target: https://github.com/p5py/p5

..
   .. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/p5.svg
      :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/p5

..
   .. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/p5.svg
      :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/p5

p5 provides high level drawing functionality to help you quickly
create simulations and interactive art using Python. It combines the
core ideas of `Processing <https://processing.org/>`_ — learning to
code in a visual context — with Python's readability to make
programming more accessible to beginners, educators, and artists.

The p5 documentation is organized into the following sections:

- :doc:`Tutorials <tutorials/index>` take you through a series of
  steps to create multiple p5 sketches and introduce you to the most
  common features. Ideally you should start here if you have never
  worked with Processing and/or p5.

- :doc:`Guides <guides/index>` provide background information on p5
  concepts and discuss topics at a high level. Unlike tutorials, the
  guides do not have step-by-step instructions and assume a basic
  understanding of p5 and/or Processing.

- The :doc:`Reference <reference/index>` provides a detailed overview
  of the complete p5 API.

In addition to this documentation, we've also written and ported many
Processing examples and reference sketches to p5. Visit the `examples
repository <https://github.com/p5py/p5-examples>`_ or `download a zip
<https://github.com/p5py/p5-examples/archive/master.zip>`_ with all
the examples.

Before you begin make sure you go through the :doc:`Installation
<install>` pages to get started. If have programmed in Processing
before, you should also take a look at the :doc:`p5 for Processing
users <guides/for-processing-users>` guide. The API reference also
notes differences from the Processing API.

p5 is free and open source software and has been `released under the
GPL3 license <https://github.com/p5py/p5/blob/master/LICENSE>`_. All
development work happens on the `Github repository
<https://github.com/p5py/p5/>`_. If you would like to report a bug,
request additional features, or would like to help out in general,
please take a look at the `CONTRIBUTING
<https://github.com/p5py/p5/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`_ file on
the `project repository on Github <https://github.com/p5py/p5/>`_.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   :glob:

   install
   quickstart
   tutorials/*
   guides/*
   reference/*
